# CHIKV-Effective-Strategies
## Effective strategies to control the largest chikungunya fever outbreak in China

The projecet primary analyzes the effective strategies to control the largest chikungunya fever outbreak in China, including three main files: (1) data, (2) code, and (3) result.
In the first file (named data), it contains the data required for the manuscript (named Foshan_cases.xlsx). The first sheet is the data for simulation fitting (Sheet1), and the second sheet is the data for model validation (Sheet2).

In the code file, it contains the following:
##### 1.Data fitting (named "1.fitted-foshan_k.R")
##### 2.Rt calculation ("2.calculate Rt.R")
##### 3.Simulation of the effects of different interventions ("3.simulate_foshan_combind_measures.R")
##### 4.Results and visualization of different intervention combinations ("4.combind_measures_result.R")
##### 5.Validation of intervention scenarios.("5.validation_combind_measures_result.R")
##### 6.Simulation of the vector clearance rate under different interventions ("6.simulate_foshan_single_measure_calculate_mosquitoes.R")
The code 'CHIKV-model.R' contains the baseline model 'CHIKV_model' and the intervention model 'CHIKV_model_with_combind_intervention'. The codes 'fixed parameters.R' and 'init_value & fixed parameters.R' contain the model's fixed parameters and some initial values. The codes 'plot function.R' and 'Fig 5 & Fig S9.ipynb' are used to store the code for plotting the model results. The code 'result_sim.R' is used to summarize the results.  

The results file is used to store the results of data analysis and visualization. 

The R version is available on CRAN https://cran.r-project.org/mirrors.html. The Python version is available at https://www.python.org/downloads/.

### 1.Data fitting 
Based on the constructed SI-SEI-SEIAR transmission model (CHIKV-model.R), the MCMC algorithm is used to simulate the number of cases under no-intervention scenarios and compare them with the actual reported cases (Sheet1 in 'Foshan_cases.xlsx'). This process helps to obtain the uncertain parameters βmp, βpm, and k. At the same time, it simulates the number of cases over 180 days under no-intervention scenarios. 

### 2.Rt calculation
In this code, we estimated the basic reproduction number R0 of the model based on the next-generation matrix method.

### 3.Simulation of the effects of different interventions 
We simulated the results under different intervention combinations and different initial intervention times based on this code, and the results were saved as result_combind_measures_control_time.rds and result_combind_measures_control_time_summary.rds.

### 4.Results and visualization of different intervention combinations 
Based on the results generated by code3, we extracted the results for scenarios I-VI and performed visualizations, which were then saved in the result folder.

### 5.Validation of intervention scenarios.
Based on the results of the intervention model, we compared the model with the actual number of cases (Sheet2 in “Foshan_cases.xlsx”) to verify the feasibility of the model and to evaluate the actual intervention measures.

### 6.Simulation of the vector clearance rate under different interventions 
Evaluation of the actual daily mosquito elimination proportion per day.



